---
layout: post
title:  "Data Structures"
date:   2016-06-25 20:11:04 +0000
---


I decided to take on the writing prompt of researching Data Structures and finding something online that Learn didn't cover. There's a lot out there on Data Structures so I decided to narrow it down to Stacks and Queues, something I don't remember covering thus far in Learn. What I've gathered from my research is that there are different ways of storing data and it is up to you to decide which one is fastest and suits your specific needs for your app/software. Two common ways of storing things are called Stacks and Queues. A stack is pretty straightforward. A good example of this is cooking pancakes on a weekend morning. You pour the syrup onto the griddle and when the pancake is cooked you place it on the plate. The second pancake is poured onto the griddle, cooked, and then placed ontop of the first pancake. After a while you have a stack of pancakes - the first one you made on the bottom, and the last one on the top. It's a linear structure. You can only take the top pancake off (the last one that you made). You can't go to the middle of the stack and pull one out. A queue on the other hand is handled differently. A good example of this is a line at a movie theater on Saturday night. The first person to get to the movie theater will be the first served and able to buy their ticket. People start to line up and they are served in the order that they are lined up - sort of opposite of the stack where the first pancake goes to the bottom of the pile. Lastly, I learned about a Deque (Double Ended Queue). This sort of data structure gives you access to both ends of the data pile. First and last. It's a bit of a mixture of a stack and a queue. There's a lot more to Data Structures that I'd like to research as I know that Data Structures and Algorithms are often times brought up as interview questions on a whiteboard. 
