---
layout: post
title:  "Why I started Coding"
date:   2016-05-23 19:17:38 +0000
---


I came to coding through an interest in Web Design and wanting to leave a job that I absolutely despised. I love visiting a beautifully designed website, or using an aesthetically pleasing app. While going to college, I decided in my spare time that I wanted to teach myself basic coding. I picked up HTML and CSS very quickly and then didn't do much with it for a while. I finished college with a degree in Biology and, like many others, struggled to find a job. Eventually I did, but I hated the work. It didn't challenge me to think, and it wasn't creative. I get bored easily if I'm not challenged and who wants to work at a boring job they hate? I decided to leave my job in Los Angeles and move home to Seattle. 

I had been searching around for other jobs and saw that there were many advertisements for jobs in tech. The jobs were more advanced than what I could do, so I looked into what sort of education options were available in that area. I ended up deciding to take a full-stack JavaScript bootcamp in Seattle. There were three parts to the bootcamp. I completed the first two and really enjoyed them. As I went into the third it became clear there was a learning gap between the classes and a lot of assumed knowledge that I felt I wasn't equipped with. The company was only a couple years old so they were still working on their curriculum and there were still some wrinkles that needed ironing out. That's when I started looking around at other options and discovered Flat Iron's Learn program. I took the free intro to Ruby and found that I really liked Ruby. It was interesting learning a new language after having learned JavaScript. I had been told by many that picking up a second language is far easier than learning the first. The same concepts exist across programming languages like JavaScript and Ruby and it was cool to actually witness this. The program is far more in depth than the bootcamp that I took originally and I feel as though I'll be much more prepared than if I had continued with the original bootcamp I attended. Knowing the logic behind the magic of Rails is just as important as knowing Rails. I've really enjoyed the program thus far and am looking forward to finishing and finding a job that, hopefully, I love. 
