---
layout: post
title:  "HTML Subtleties"
date:   2016-06-07 15:20:00 -0400
---


HTML is pretty straightforward. It's the bones that make up the skeleton of a website, and there isn't that much to learn in the scheme of things. One of the classes that I took early on in my path to becoming a developer was a Web Accessibility class. The class addressed the different difficulties that people with disabilities face when using the Internet. The internet is somewhere that needs to be inclusive of all people, not exclusive. The class had us experience different disabilites whether that was using a blindfold and a screen reader to experience the internet without sight, or holding a chopstick in our mouths to use the keyboard and navigate the internet the way someone who didn't have the use of their arms would do. The class covered guidelines given by the W3C and brought up court cases against major companies like Target or Amazon for not providing accessible web experiences. Amazon is currently working on making their website accessible, while Target refuses. The law hasn't caught up with the internet yet. While brick and mortar businesses have to follow laws regarding accessibility, websites don't yet have those requirements. However the world is moving in that direction, and future clients could be open to law suits if the websites or apps you develop for them are not accessible. 

The HTML subtleties that I noticed the most when interacting with the internet from a disabled point of view was specifically with screen readers. Most websites follow certain guidelines. It would be extremely confusing for someone with a screen reader to go to a website who's header in html was placed where the footer should be. It would be extremely confusing to have a navigation bar that has 20 different links on it that all have to be read out loud on the screen reader. If something is important, don't put a bold tag around it. Put a strong tag around it. The semantics matter to someone who can't see. If someone visiting your website doesn't have the use of their arms and can't use a mouse, it's important for them to be able to tab through your site and fill out forms. A great deal of focus is placed on how a website is styled. This isn't to say that styling isn't important (I love styling), but don't let the style of your website overshadow the importance of an accessible website.

I encourage anyone in web development to try out using a keyboard with just a chopstick, or navigate the internet with a blindfold and a screen reader. Neither are easy and it changed my perspective greatly on the projects I work on. At the very least, check out the W3C guidelines here: http://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/accessibility. As a business it's in your best interest to develop websites that are available to every kind of customer. But even more so, as a human it's important to not be an asshole and be as inclusive as you possible can be. The internet is special and is for everyone - that's what is so great about it. 
